You have freedom here. The only guide is your heart. Let's build some happy little clouds up here. A little happy sunlight shining through there. Trees live in your fan brush, but you have to scare them out. Just let these leaves jump off the brush You better get your coat out, this is going to be a cold painting.

If you hypnotize it, it will go away. When things happen - enjoy them. They're little gifts. Here's something that's fun. We don't really know where this goes - and I'm not sure we really care. I thought today we would make a happy little stream that's just running through the woods here.

I guess that would be considered a UFO. A big cotton ball in the sky. Maybe there was an old trapper that lived out here and maybe one day he went to check his beaver traps, and maybe he fell into the river and drowned. We have a fantastic little sky!

Working it up and down, back and forth. Let's have a little bit of fun today. In life you need colors. All those little son of a guns.

You can create the world you want to see and be a part of. You have that power. Learn when to stop. And just raise cain. Give him a friend, we forget the trees get lonely too. Isn't that fantastic? You can just push a little tree out of your brush like that.

The only prerequisite is that it makes you happy. If it makes you happy then it's good. Anytime you learn something your time and energy are not wasted. It's a good way of getting rid of all your anxieties and hostilities. Use what happens naturally, don't fight it.

Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world. That's what painting is all about. It should make you feel good when you paint. Don't be afraid to make these big decisions. Once you start, they sort of just make themselves. We can fix anything. Let's make some happy little clouds in our world.

It's life. It's interesting. It's fun. We need dark in order to show light. If it's not what you want - stop and change it. Don't just keep going and expect it will get better. It's so important to do something every day that will make you happy.

No pressure. Just relax and watch it happen. How do you make a round circle with a square knife? That's your challenge for the day. I guess I'm a little weird. I like to talk to trees and animals. That's okay though; I have more fun than most people. Use your imagination, let it go.

If you do too much it's going to lose its effectiveness. That's crazy. Now it's beginning to make a little sense. A thin paint will stick to a thick paint. Isn't it great to do something you can't fail at? Now then, let's play.

If you didn't have baby clouds, you wouldn't have big clouds. I will take some magic white, and a little bit of Vandyke brown and a little touch of yellow. I want everbody to be happy. That's what it's all about. What the devil. Steve wants reflections, so let's give him reflections. Of course he's a happy little stone, cause we don't have any other kind.

Every highlight needs it's own personal shadow. We might as well make some Almighty mountains today as well, what the heck. We don't have to be committed. We are just playing here. We need a shadow side and a highlight side. Take your time. Speed will come later. You don't have to spend all your time thinking about what you're doing, you just let it happen.

Let your imagination just wonder around when you're doing these things. Those great big fluffy clouds. Almost everything is going to happen for you automatically - you don't have to spend any time working or worrying. I sincerely wish for you every possible joy life could bring.

In nature, dead trees are just as normal as live trees. Decide where your cloud lives. Maybe he lives right in here. This is unplanned it really just happens.

We'll throw some happy little limbs on this tree. You can do anything here - the only pre-requisite is that it makes you happy. If there's two big trees invariably sooner or later there's gonna be a little tree.

I'm going to mix up a little color. We’ll use Van Dyke Brown, Permanent Red, and a little bit of Prussian Blue. There are no limits in this world. God gave you this gift of imagination. Use it. All you need to paint is a few tools, a little instruction, and a vision in your mind. Let's do it again then, what the heck. Let's put some happy trees and bushes back in here.

We have all at one time or another mixed some mud. This is the way you take out your flustrations. We artists are a different breed of people. We're a happy bunch. Don't kill all your dark areas - you need them to show the light. There it is.

We don't need any guidelines or formats. All we need to do is just let it flow right out of us. That's why I paint - because I can create the kind of world I want - and I can make this world as happy as I want it. Isn't that fantastic that you can create an almighty tree that fast? Everybody's different. Trees are different. Let them all be individuals. There we are.

Poor old tree. Mix your color marbly don't mix it dead. Son of a gun. Trees grow however makes them happy. If I paint something, I don't want to have to explain what it is. It's all a game of angles.

Use what you see, don't plan it. See. We take the corner of the brush and let it play back-and-forth. I'll go over the colors one more time that we use: Titanium white, Thalo green, Prussian blue, Van Dyke brown, Alizarin crimson, Sap green, Cad yellow, and Permanent red. This is probably the greatest thing to happen in my life - to be able to share this with you. Now we don't want him to get lonely, so we'll give him a little friend.

We'll put some happy little leaves here and there. It all happens automatically. Don't be bashful drop me a line. Now, we're going to fluff this cloud. In your world you have total and absolute power. Maybe there's a happy little waterfall happening over here.

With practice comes confidence. This is where you take out all your hostilities and frustrations. It's better than kicking the puppy dog around and all that so. Isn't that fantastic?

Don't fight it, use what happens. Every single thing in the world has its own personality - and it is up to you to make friends with the little rascals. And maybe, maybe, maybe... Here's another little happy bush

Once you learn the technique, ohhh! Turn you loose on the world; you become a tiger. Now we can begin working on lots of happy little things. These little son of a guns hide in your brush and you just have to push them out. You got your heavy coat out yet? It's getting colder. It's important to me that you're happy.

You can't make a mistake. Anything that happens you can learn to use - and make something beautiful out of it. Clouds are free they come and go as they please. Maybe there's a little something happening right here. Nature is so fantastic, enjoy it. Let it make you happy. I'm gonna add just a tiny little amount of Prussian Blue.

As trees get older they lose their chlorophyll. I can't think of anything more rewarding than being able to express yourself to others through painting. Everyone wants to enjoy the good parts - but you have to build the framework first. It's beautiful - and we haven't even done anything to it yet.

In painting, you have unlimited power. You have the ability to move mountains. But they're very easily killed. Clouds are delicate. We wash our brush with odorless thinner. I like to beat the brush.

It's amazing what you can do with a little love in your heart. There we go. Let's put some happy little clouds in our world. Little short strokes. This is gonna be a happy little seascape. There isn't a rule. You just practice and find out which way works best for you.

Go out on a limb - that's where the fruit is. We'll take a little bit of Van Dyke Brown. That is when you can experience true joy, when you have no fear.

It is a lot of fun. The least little bit can do so much. If we're going to have animals around we all have to be concerned about them and take care of them. Only eight colors that you need.

Just let go - and fall like a little waterfall. This is probably the greatest thing that's ever happened in my life. You're meant to have fun in life.

In this world, everything can be happy. You can spend all day playing with mountains. If you overwork it you become a cloud killer. There's nothing worse than a cloud killer.

Don't fiddle with it all day. It just happens - whether or not you worried about it or tried to plan it. We'll paint one happy little tree right here. Don't forget to tell these special people in your life just how special they are to you.

We'll put a happy little sky in here. This is your world. Just think about these things in your mind - then bring them into your world. You can bend rivers. But when I get home, the only thing I have power over is the garbage. If we're gonna walk though the woods, we need a little path.

This is the fun part Paint anything you want on the canvas. Create your own world. Absolutely no pressure. You are just a whisper floating across a mountain. You can create anything that makes you happy.

This is an example of what you can do with just a few things, a little imagination and a happy dream in your heart. Automatically, all of these beautiful, beautiful things will happen. With something so strong, a little bit can go a long way. I'm a water fanatic. I love water. A tree cannot be straight if it has a crooked trunk.

There is immense joy in just watching - watching all the little creatures in nature. Don't hurry. Take your time and enjoy. The only thing worse than yellow snow is green snow. And I will hypnotize that just a little bit. This is your creation - and it's just as unique and special as you are.

Be so very light. Be a gentle whisper. It's a super day, so why not make a beautiful sky? We don't make mistakes we just have happy little accidents. This present moment is perfect simply due to the fact you're experiencing it. Only God can make a tree - but you can paint one. Isn't it fantastic that you can change your mind and create all these happy things?

It's almost like something out of a fairytale book. Didn't you know you had that much power? You can move mountains. You can do anything. It looks so good, I might as well not stop. This is your world, whatever makes you happy you can put in it. Go crazy. At home you have unlimited time. It's cold, but it's beautiful.

Put it in, leave it alone. Just let your mind wander and enjoy. This should make you happy. Just make little strokes like that.

There we go. The more we do this - the more it will do good things to our heart. Nice little clouds playing around in the sky.

Maybe there's a happy little Evergreen that lives here. Life is too short to be alone, too precious. Share it with a friend. Talk to trees, look at the birds. Whatever it takes. Just think about these things in your mind and drop em' on canvas. Just pretend you are a whisper floating across a mountain. Everyone is going to see things differently - and that's the way it should be.

You can do anything here. So don't worry about it. Put light against light - you have nothing. Put dark against dark - you have nothing. It's the contrast of light and dark that each give the other one meaning. Let's put some highlights on these little trees. The sun wouldn't forget them. Think about a cloud. Just float around and be there. That's a crooked tree. We'll send him to Washington.

Let your imagination be your guide. Little trees and bushes grow however makes them happy. There is no right or wrong - as long as it makes you happy and doesn't hurt anyone. There's not a thing in the world wrong with washing your brush. When you do it your way you can go anywhere you choose.

All you have to do is let your imagination go wild. The light is your friend. Preserve it. Just a little indication.

Let's give him a friend too. Everybody needs a friend. And I know you're saying, 'Oh Bob, you've done it this time.' And you may be right. We have no limits to our world. We're only limited by our imagination. Van Dyke Brown is a very nice brown, it's almost like a chocolate brown.

The secret to doing anything is believing that you can do it. Anything that you believe you can do strong enough, you can do. Anything. As long as you believe. You can get away with a lot. You have to make these big decisions. Water's like me. It's laaazy ... Boy, it always looks for the easiest way to do things There's nothing wrong with having a tree as a friend. See how easy it is to create a little tree right in your world.

Follow the lay of the land. It's most important. Let's get crazy. Maybe we got a few little happy bushes here, just covered with snow. Everyone needs a friend. Friends are the most valuable things in the world.

Everything's not great in life, but we can still find beauty in it. When you buy that first tube of paint it gives you an artist license. Everybody needs a friend. Get away from those little Christmas tree things we used to make in school. But we're not there yet, so we don't need to worry about it.

Trees get lonely too, so we'll give him a little friend. A beautiful little sunset. See there how easy that is. Look around, look at what we have. Beauty is everywhere, you only have to look to see it. I get carried away with this brush cleaning. We'll put all the little clouds in and let them dance around and have fun.

This is a fantastic little painting. I was blessed with a very steady hand; and it comes in very handy when you're doing these little delicate things. If you don't think every day is a good day - try missing a few. You'll see. Let's go up in here, and start having some fun

How to paint. That's easy. What to paint. That's much harder. Fluff that up. All you need is a dream in your heart, and an almighty knife. Just relax and let it flow. That easy.

I really recommend you use odorless thinner or your spouse is gonna run you right out into the yard and you'll be working by yourself. You are only limited by your imagination. A fan brush can be your best friend.

We can always carry this a step further. There's really no end to this. You need the dark in order to show the light. All you have to learn here is how to have fun. Now let's put some happy little clouds in here.

We'll throw some old gray clouds in here just sneaking around and having fun. The shadows are just like the highlights, but we're going in the opposite direction. La- da- da- da- dah. Just be happy.

You could sit here for weeks with your one hair brush trying to do that - or you could do it with one stroke with an almighty brush. These things happen automatically. All you have to do is just let them happen. Imagination is the key to painting. We'll play with clouds today. Tree trunks grow however makes them happy. The man who does the best job is the one who is happy at his job.

There he comes. Just use the old one inch brush. We touch the canvas, the canvas takes what it wants. You've got to learn to fight the temptation to resist these things. Just let them happen.

We don't want to set these clouds on fire. We must be quiet, soft and gentle. The first step to doing anything is to believe you can do it. See it finished in your mind before you ever start. That's the way I look when I get home late; black and blue.

Every time you practice, you learn more. Let's just drop a little Evergreen right here. You gotta think like a tree. Talent is a pursued interest. That is to say, anything you practice you can do. You can create beautiful things - but you have to see them in your mind first. Just go back and put one little more happy tree in there.

We're not trying to teach you a thing to copy. We're just here to teach you a technique, then let you loose into the world. Trees grow in all kinds of ways. They're not all perfectly straight. Not every limb is perfect. Do an almighty painting with us.

Maybe, just to play a little, we'll put a little tree here. By now you should be quite happy about what's happening here. They say everything looks better with odd numbers of things. But sometimes I put even numbers—just to upset the critics. Work that paint.

No worries. No cares. Just float and wait for the wind to blow you around. Happy painting, God bless. Be careful. You can always add more - but you can't take it away. Making all those little fluffies that live in the clouds.

Even the worst thing we can do here is good. That easy. If you don't like it - change it. It's your world. These trees are so much fun. I get started on them and I have a hard time stopping. Look at them little rascals.

You can work and carry-on and put lots of little happy things in here. You have to make those little noises or it won't work. Brown is such a nice color. Let your heart take you to wherever you want to be.

You need to have a very firm paint to do this. In your imagination you can go anywhere you want. In your world you can create anything you desire. Let the paint work. All kinds of happy little splashes. We tell people sometimes: we're like drug dealers, come into town and get everybody absolutely addicted to painting. It doesn't take much to get you addicted.

So often we avoid running water, and running water is a lot of fun. If you've been in Alaska less than a year you're a Cheechako. Just take out whatever you don't want. It'll change your entire perspective. We'll do another happy little painting. You create the dream - then you bring it into your world. Everything is happy if you choose to make it that way.

We don't have anything but happy trees here. Even trees need a friend. We all need friends. Now we'll take the almighty fan brush. And maybe a little bush lives there. I'm gonna start with a little Alizarin crimson and a touch of Prussian blue

I spend a lot of time walking around in the woods and talking to trees, and squirrels, and little rabbits and stuff. Isn't that fantastic that you can make whole mountains in minutes? See there, told you that would be easy. Let's do that again. That's a son of a gun of a cloud.

Only think about one thing at a time. Don't get greedy. Here we're limited by the time we have. The little tiny Tim easels will let you down. Very easy to work these to death.

The very fact that you're aware of suffering is enough reason to be overjoyed that you're alive and can experience it. We start with a vision in our heart, and we put it on canvas. Just make a decision and let it go. We'll make some happy little bushes here.

I really believe that if you practice enough you could paint the 'Mona Lisa' with a two-inch brush. There are no mistakes. You can fix anything that happens. Mountains are so simple, they're hard. I started painting as a hobby when I was little. I didn't know I had any talent. I believe talent is just a pursued interest. Anybody can do what I do. This piece of canvas is your world.

Be brave. Painting should do one thing. It should put happiness in your heart. Each highlight must have it's own private shadow. It's a very cold picture, I may have to go get my coat. It’s about to freeze me to death. You're the greatest thing that has ever been or ever will be. You're special. You're so very special. Let's get wild today.

Nothing's gonna make your husband or wife madder than coming home and having a snow-covered dinner. Volunteering your time; it pays you and your whole community fantastic dividends. It takes dark in order to show light. We'll have a super time. You can't have light without dark. You can't know happiness unless you've known sorrow. Pretend you're water. Just floating without any effort. Having a good day.

Exercising the imagination, experimenting with talents, being creative; these things, to me, are truly the windows to your soul. Any little thing can be your friend if you let it be. A tree needs to be your friend if you're going to paint him. Clouds are free. They just float around the sky all day and have fun. Anyone can paint. Maybe he has a little friend that lives right over here.

And that's when it becomes fun - you don't have to spend your time thinking about what's happening - you just let it happen. Every day I learn. Let's make a nice big leafy tree. Use absolutely no pressure. Just like an angel's wing.

Have fun with it. Just go out and talk to a tree. Make friends with it. We spend so much of our life looking - but never seeing. Play with the angles.

We want to use a lot pressure while using no pressure at all. A happy cloud. Let's have a happy little tree in here. This is the time to get out all your flustrations, much better than kicking the dog around the house or taking it out on your spouse. We don't have to be concerned about it. We just have to let it fall where it will.

Just let this happen. We just let this flow right out of our minds. We're trying to teach you a technique here and how to use it. Nothing wrong with washing your brush.

Work on one thing at a time. Don't get carried away - we have plenty of time. We'll lay all these little funky little things in there. You want your tree to have some character. Make it special. I thought today we would do a happy little picture. You don't want to kill all your dark areas they are very important. It's hard to see things when you're too close. Take a step back and look.

Nice little fluffy clouds laying around in the sky being lazy. I'm sort of a softy, I couldn't shoot Bambi except with a camera. This is truly an almighty mountain.

We'll put a happy little bush here. You can do it. Let that brush dance around there and play. This painting comes right out of your heart.

Let's make a happy little mountain now. Let your heart be your guide. Trees cover up a multitude of sins.

A fan brush is a fantastic piece of equipment. Use it. Make friends with it. For the lack of a better word I call them hangy downs. Let's put a touch more of the magic here. Let's put some happy little bushes on the other side now. Let your imagination be your guide.

Let all these little things happen. Don't fight them. Learn to use them. Anything you want to do you can do here. Maybe there's a happy little bush that lives right there. Let's build an almighty mountain. You can do anything your heart can imagine. Sometimes you learn more from your mistakes than you do from your masterpieces.

A big strong tree needs big strong roots. Get tough with it, get strong. Without washing the brush, I'm gonna go right into some Van Dyke Brown, some Burnt Umber, and a little bit of Sap Green. Just beat the devil out of it.

Fluff it up a little and hypnotize it. Let's have a nice tree right here. You have to allow the paint to break to make it beautiful. Just a happy little shadow that lives in there. There comes a nice little fluffer. That's what makes life fun. That you can make these decisions. That you can create the world that you want.

This is a happy place, little squirrels live here and play. If these lines aren't straight, your water's going to run right out of your painting and get your floor wet. And right there you got an almighty cloud.

Let all these things just sort of happen. Remember how free clouds are. They just lay around in the sky all day long. Zip. That easy. I think there's an artist hidden in the bottom of every single one of us. Let's make some happy little clouds in our world.

You have to make almighty decisions when you're the creator. If what you're doing doesn't make you happy - you're doing the wrong thing. You don't have to be crazy to do this but it does help. From all of us here, I want to wish you happy painting and God bless, my friends. You have freedom here. The only guide is your heart. Let's build some happy little clouds up here.

A little happy sunlight shining through there. Trees live in your fan brush, but you have to scare them out. Just let these leaves jump off the brush

You better get your coat out, this is going to be a cold painting. If you hypnotize it, it will go away. When things happen - enjoy them. They're little gifts. Here's something that's fun. We don't really know where this goes - and I'm not sure we really care. I thought today we would make a happy little stream that's just running through the woods here.

I guess that would be considered a UFO. A big cotton ball in the sky. Maybe there was an old trapper that lived out here and maybe one day he went to check his beaver traps, and maybe he fell into the river and drowned. We have a fantastic little sky!

Working it up and down, back and forth. Let's have a little bit of fun today. In life you need colors. All those little son of a guns. You can create the world you want to see and be a part of. You have that power. Learn when to stop.

And just raise cain. Give him a friend, we forget the trees get lonely too. Isn't that fantastic? You can just push a little tree out of your brush like that. The only prerequisite is that it makes you happy. If it makes you happy then it's good. Anytime you learn something your time and energy are not wasted. It's a good way of getting rid of all your anxieties and hostilities.

Use what happens naturally, don't fight it. Put your feelings into it, your heart, it's your world. That's what painting is all about. It should make you feel good when you paint. Don't be afraid to make these big decisions. Once you start, they sort of just make themselves.

We can fix anything. Let's make some happy little clouds in our world. It's life. It's interesting. It's fun.

We need dark in order to show light. If it's not what you want - stop and change it. Don't just keep going and expect it will get better. It's so important to do something every day that will make you happy. No pressure. Just relax and watch it happen. How do you make a round circle with a square knife? That's your challenge for the day. I guess I'm a little weird. I like to talk to trees and animals. That's okay though; I have more fun than most people.

Use your imagination, let it go. If you do too much it's going to lose its effectiveness. That's crazy. Now it's beginning to make a little sense.

A thin paint will stick to a thick paint. Isn't it great to do something you can't fail at? Now then, let's play. If you didn't have baby clouds, you wouldn't have big clouds.
